- [Instructor] Let's move into the topic of channels.
This is the first of two lessons on channels.
We will begin with foundational concepts.
Then discuss the MessageChannel
as a Spring integration component.
We will end the lesson with a code implementation.
Let's us define a producer.
We can think of a producer as a business process
that has information to communicate
to a larger system.
Its counterpart, a consumer,
is a business process that needs
to receive information
in order to do its business processing work.
And a channel? Well, a channel is a couple of things.
Let's start by defining a channel conceptually
as a conduit for transmitting messages
between producers and consumers.
Producers and consumers share information encapsulated
in message objects
that are transmitted via channels.
Channels are concerned with transmission.
To advance this particular lesson,
let's be more specific and define a channel
as an implementation
of the Spring framework MessageChannel interface.
There are many out-of-the-box implementations
of MessageChannel that you can and will employ
within Spring integration.
We're going to look at some of these later.
All of them though inherit
from either the SubscribableChannel
or the PollableChannel interface,
both of which in turn inherit
from the all-important MessageChannel interface.
The MessageChannel interface guarantees
that every channel has the capacity to send messages.
In turn, Subscribable and Pollable interfaces
both guarantee that every channel has the capacity
to deliver messages.
Later we will talk in some details
about the differences between Subscribable
and Pollable models of communication.
They are substantive.
Right now, let's focus on the SubscribableChannel
and let's learn about its characteristics
through the process of making one ourselves.
In our code editor together,
let's have a first look
at making a Spring integration channel.
Let's get our bearings
by looking at where we're starting here.
For starters, we want to check out our source code
for this lesson
and that would be git checkout 02_02b.
Once that's done in the starter application,
what you'll see in the user interface,
which is the web browser,
is in the Tech Support section of our grid dashboard.
We notice that the Software Build notice to the user
is at this time undetermined.
And what we're going to do in this lesson
is we're going to configure a Spring integration channel
that pipes the software build out to the user,
the correct software build.
So let's get under way.
Let's stop our application from running.
And the first thing we want to do
is go to our Spring integration configuration files
that we've got here in the resources META-INF folder.
We've got them stored under integration.
And let's pull up the tech-support.xml integration file.
And this is the super fun thing.
I just love how simple this is to do.
We're going to use the integration name space.
Declare an integration colon channel.
Give it an id.
Let's call it techSupportChannel.
Close the element and that's it.
We have now created
our very first Spring integration channel.
Let's learn about what we have created.
Let's go to DashboardManager.
And now that we have a channel, we need to consume it.
So here in the InitializeTechSupport method,
we left off creating a generic message
and now what we're going to do
is we're going to send that message
over the channel that we just configured
in tech-support.xml.
The way we're going to do that in this example
is we're going to go out to the Spring context
and pull in a bean
and get a handle on our channel in that fashion.
Now, the first thing to know
is that very simple channel that we implemented
where it just said int:channel,
what that gives us in Spring
is something called a DirectChannel.
A DirectChannel has specific qualities
and what a DirectChannel is going to give us
is a single synchronous single-threaded communication pipe.
Let's finish getting our bean configured
and we called that channel techSupportChannel
in our XML configuration file.
And now that we've got a handle on this techSupportChannel,
this is also quite fun.
All we need to do is send this message
that we created in the last lesson.
So just a recap.
We went out to our Spring integration context,
we got a handle on the DirectChannel
that we configured here called techSupportChannel.
And we're using that channel to send a message.
Now, a sent message is no use without a receiving end.
In fact, if we try to compile this application right now,
it would not compile.
It would give us a message delivery exception
because we don't have a subscription
to listen for the message.
So let's go up here into the initializeView method
and let's get a handle on the very same channel.
I'm going to cut and paste here for expedience.
And now on this channel,
this is a SubscribableChannel
and so the method we have at our disposal is subscribe.
The final thing to know about this channel implementation
is in order to subscribe to it,
we need a message handler interface.
We will cover message handlers in a future lesson.
For now, just know that that message handler interface
is what's going to pipe the message itself out
to our user interface.
Basically it's handling the message it receives
when the subscribe comes in with a message.
So I believe that's all we need to do
in order to now see our results on our user interface.
Just to recap, we got a handle on our message.
We sent a message
in the initializeView portion,
we subscribed to the same message
and that message handler's going to pipe the message out
to the interface.
Let's start our application.
Hooray, we started without incident.
Let's load our user interface again
and as we see now in the Tech Support section,
the software build indeed has a meaningful identifier.
So now we have configured our first channel,
a DirectChannel that uses
the subscribable event-based model of communication.